# Introduction: 
  A Chatbot project developed by a team first year Computer Science university students. It features a variety of useful features such as a translator, dictionary, wikipedia search, weather reports, directions & places from google and a profanity filter along with cute cat facts and images. It is also implemented into Discord. To run the code, the python modules in Dependencies.txt need to be installed and a Discord Bot token must be inserted into the variable "TOKEN". A preview of what the functioning prototype looks like can be found in the folder PreviewImages. 

# Contributions:
  My goal from the beginning was to develop a chatbot which makes use of features in a natural way, without breaking the conversational experience. For instance if you want a friend to translate something for you, a natural way of asking would be "can you say/translate "something" in/to some language", or if you want the weather for a specific location, you ask "what's the weather like in "some city". So I designed a keyword algorithm, which calls functions while keeping the conversation fairly natural.

  That makes it hard to figure out where the argument is in the sentence. For example in my translating function, when the keyword to call the function is met, it needs to figure out where the other 2 arguments(sentence to be translated, language you want it translated to) are in the sentence and extract them. So every function that takes an argument as input has a formatting based on assumption. In the translating function I assume what the user wants translated would be encapsulated in quotations and the language follows after that. If the keyword is met but the formatting is wrong, the bot returns an example of proper formatting.

  Since we didn't sufficiently utilize git for merging and version control, I handled it by speaking to each team member individually and giving them my take on how we could implement their function into my algorithm. I see how this would be impractical in a large-scale project with hundreds of developers and I realize the importance of utilizing git properly to avoid such issues. It is also why I uploaded the files to a separate repository, instead of linking to the original one. 

  As part of my algorithm, each user input iteration can only call one function. So either one of the features listed above, or the chatbot itself. If keywords for multiple functions are present in the user input, only the one with the highest priority would be called. The priorty is decided by their order in the main function. As for the chatbot we had 2 versions in development. One by me using chatterbot and another one by a team member using TenserFlow, which unfortunately never made it into the final prototype. I handled the bot training by using the english corpus built into chatterbot and a dataset of Twitter conversations I found online. I could only use a small portion of that dataset however, as with the increase in size of the database, the output also took longer to process. And of course a lot of profane language is used on Twitter so we implemented a profanity filter, which applies to both the user and the chatbot. 
  
  The implementation into Discord was handled by me and two of my team members. Originally we had the bot only respond to being called by a certain command, but that isn't very intuitive when having a conversation or for evaluation purposes. So I developed a version which reads every input sent in the channel without any prefix or command to keep it more natural and conversation friendly. Each version has its benefits, as you can't really use this one in a multi-purpose channel. 
  
# NOTE  
  Most of the code I've written, which includes the code for training the chatbot, along with the datasets can be found in the folder PersonalCode.
  
# Takeaway:
  There's a reason why tools such as git and AGILE development methods are so popular. The development of this project, while successful, would've been a lot more efficient if they were properly put into action. 
